uh
let me tell you a little bit about what
we do i was born intellectually
when cancer genetics was also being born
the idea that
genes resident in normal cells
could be mutated and thereby unleash a
process that would ultimately lead to
cancer so that was my
sort of my intellectual baptism and um
and the question that our laboratory has
asked that i'm interested in is what
how do we take that information and make
something of it what do we do next
how does how do these alterations in
genes
ultimately result in alterations in
cellular behavior
because ultimately cancer is something
that happens beyond genes
how do these ultracellular behaviors so
that these behaviors
result in a cell that grows out of
control invades other tissues
and ultimately leads to all the
morbidity and mortality
of cancer so we started
we started with blood cancers because uh
it's what we perhaps understand the best
i treat patients with leukemia
and pre-leukemic disease called mds we
bring those samples into the laboratory
but really our work begins when we try
to understand how these cells
survive in the human body one of the
most exciting projects that we've done
which was published in
nature two years three years ago was
when we found that in fact
these blood cancer cells don't live in
isolation they live they make their own
homes they make their environments up
they live in the bone marrow for a very
specific reason because they're getting
signals
that sustain their development within
the bone marrow
and the question is you know instead of
the traditional chemo chemotherapies
which try to attack the
cancer cells directly could we change
the environment could we change the home
in which these cells live so that now we
can direct other kinds of therapies
which may be less susceptible to the
fact that cancer mutates all the time
you know in cancer you're playing
this nasty evolutionary game trying to
play cat and mouse
because the cancer cell is evolving all
the time but instead of playing cat
mouse can we if can we change the
environment in which the cancer cells
can eradicate the homes
so that they don't know that they no
longer can can can keep one step ahead
that's one area of research and the
second that i'll mention
more recently is that we focus more and
more on the cell biology of cancer again
how do these genes coordinate their
lives
so that the cancer cell acquires uh
acquires this behavior
and that has resulted in a new set of
discoveries of
stem cells that play roles in in various
forms of cancer
the most exciting thing that's come out
of that uh
exactly about a month ago is that we
actually through the lens of cancer
we're able to
find normal stem cells including a stem
cell that
seems to build the entire vertebrate
skeleton a skeletal stem cell
this was published in cell uh uh two
months ago but really gives us a window
about what this environment is that
causes cancer growth you know how does
the bone
get created so that the bone marrow that
then gets created and again we're
looking at cancer now
not only from the genetic level but from
the cell biological level so
those are two highlights of the work we
do mds
and the work on bone and bone cancers
but i'll let the rest of the panel
speak about it further you